Add Antora Site Structure Description for Docs (#4616)
owncloud/docs: docs/antora-site-structure.md

# Antora Site Structure for Docs
[link-asciidoc]: https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/
[link-antora]: https://antora.org
[link-playbook]: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/playbook/
[link-ui]: https://docs.antora.org/antora-ui-default/
[link-resource-id]: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/page/resource-id-coordinates/
[link-standard-directories]: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/standard-directories/
[link-antora-yml]: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/component-version-descriptor/
[link-site-yml]: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/playbook/#whats-an-antora-playbook
[custom-attrib-link]: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/page/attributes/#custom-attributes

**Table of Contents**
1. [Why Antora](#why-antora)

> 2. [Scope of doc Repositories](#scope-of-doc-repositories)

Author: ```suggestion
2. [Scope of Documentation Repositories](#scope-of-documentation-repositories)
```

3. [Scope of Antora Definitions](#scope-of-antora-definitions)

> 4. [Scope of Content Accessability](#scope-of-content-accessability)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [Scope of Content Accessibility](#scope-of-content-accessibility)
```

> 3. [Scope of Antora Definitions](#scope-of-antora-definitions)
> 4. [Scope of Content Accessibility](#scope-of-content-accessibility)
> 5. [Structure of Directories](#structure-of-directories)
> 6. [Scope of Antora Definitions](#scope-of-antora-definitions)

Author: ```suggestion
3. [Scope of Content Accessibility](#scope-of-content-accessibility)
4. [Structure of Directories](#structure-of-directories)
5. [Scope of Antora Definitions](#scope-of-antora-definitions)
```

## Why Antora

The main reasons for using [Antora][link-antora] is the following:

1. It uses and extends the [asciidoc][link-asciidoc] text writing format

> 2. It extends asciidoc with [multi-repo][link-playbook] capabilities. Doing so, the writer does not need to take care about repos anymore, as this is virtualized by Antora and content can be accessed with a standardized way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. It extends asciidoc with [multi-repo][link-playbook] capabilities. Thus, the writer does not need to care about repos anymore as this is virtualized by Antora and content can be accessed in a standardized way.
```

> 3. Antora seperates writing the documentation and the [UI-Template][link-ui] to define how the content is presented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Antora separates between writing the documentation and the [UI-Template][link-ui] defining how the content is presented.
```

> ## Scope of doc Repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scope of Documentation Repositories
```

> The ownCloud documentation is made of a master repo named `docs` which includes additional product repos like the clients or others (content sources, defined in `site.yml`). While each repo can be build individually for testing the outcome, only the build of docs creates a documentation which is pushed to the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ownCloud documentation consists of a master repo named `docs` which includes additional product repos like the clients or others (content sources defined in `site.yml`). While each repo can be built individually for testing, only the build of docs creates documentation which is pushed to the web.
```

```
layer-1     layer-2
master      included repos

            docs-client-desktop
docs    --> docs-client-ios-app 
            docs-client-android
            ...

```

> ## Scope of Content Accessability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scope of Content Accessibility
```

> Because Antora is capable defining additional ressources, you can access content from these resources where they are defined. To do so, you follow the [Resource ID Coordinates][link-resource-id] scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Antora is capable of defining additional resources, you can access content from these resources. To do so, follow the [Resource ID Coordinates][link-resource-id] scheme.
```

**Possible**
```
docs    --> docs-client-ios-app
            └> index.adoc
```
**Impossible**
```
docs-client-ios-app    --> docs-client-desktop
                           └> index.adoc
```

> The reason why you cant access the above is, because `docs-client-ios-app` has no reference to `docs-client-desktop`. Only `docs` hast this info by the definition in its playbook `site.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason why you cannot access the above is because `docs-client-ios-app` has no reference to `docs-client-desktop`. Only `docs` has this info defined in its playbook `site.yml`.
```

## Structure of Directories

> Each directory structure is defined identical in all doc repositories. This helps maintaining and accessing content easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All doc repositories have an identical directory structure. This helps maintaining and accessing content easily.
```

### The Antora Directory Stucture

```
modules/named-module-1/attachment
                      /examples
                      /images
                      /pages
                      /partials

       /named-module-2/attachments
                      /...
       /...
```

Please see [Standard File and Directory Set][link-standard-directories] at `Example 1` for details.

**Note that there is one important exception**:

> The navigation file `nav.adoc` is under the `partials` directory and not at the level of the named-module (like ROOT or admin ect). This is necessary because only files which are in a `family directory` can be accessed from the outside. This means, `docs` can access e.g. `nav.adoc` at any content source like `docs-client-ios-app`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The navigation file `nav.adoc` is under the `partials` directory and not at the level of the named-module (like ROOT or admin ect). This is necessary because only files which are in a `family directory` can be accessed from outside. This means `docs` can access e.g. `nav.adoc` at any content source like `docs-client-ios-app`.
```

### Other Necessary Directories

Beside the necessay directories for node, other important directories are:
```
bin/               helper scripts to maintain the documentation
book_templates/    template file(s) to create the pdf file
generator/         scripts needed by antora for the build process

> lib/               extension for antora like tabs, or kroki ect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lib/               extension for antora like tabs or kroki etc.
```

pdf_web/           output directory of generated pdf files, only used locally!
public/            output directory of generated html files, only used locally!
resources/         themes necessary for creating pdf files
tmp/               temp directory used for htmltest (broken link checking)
```
### Important files

> Following files are important to run a build properly, note that node related stuff is not mentioned explicitly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following files are important to run a build properly; note that node related stuff is not mentioned explicitly:
```

```
.drone.star        define the build process when running via github
antora.yml         contains source files and attributes that only belong

>                    to the component (version dependent !)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                   to the component (version dependent!)
```

package.json       define the antora environment und scripts to run at the cli

> site.yml           global site definitions including attributes (version independent !)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
site.yml           global site definitions including attributes (version independent!)
```

```

## Scope of Antora Definitions

### Versioning

While you can read more details about [What is antora.yml?][link-antora-yml] and [What is site.yml (the playbook)][link-site-yml], here are some important items:

> To manage versions in docs, we use branches. This means that any content based on a variable (attribute) that is limited to a branch, must go into `antora.yml` and maintained accordingly. Any attribute that is branch independent and can be used in any branch of a component must be located in `site.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage versions in docs, we use branches. This means that any content based on a variable (attribute) limited to a branch must go into `antora.yml` and be maintained accordingly. Any attribute that can be used in any branch of a component must be defined in `site.yml`
```

> ### Accessability and Availability of Attributes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accessibility and Availability of Attributes 
```

> 1. The scope of attributes defined in a page is limited to that page only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The scope of attributes defined in a page is limited to that page only.
```

> 2. The scope of attributes defined in `antora.yml` is limited to the branch and component where it is defined only. This is also true if attributes are used in the UI-Template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The scope of attributes defined in `antora.yml` is limited to the branch and component where it is defined. This is also true for attributes used in the UI-Template.
```

3. The scope of attributes defined in `site.yml` is _global_. The term global has two flavours:
    1. When used in a level-2 repo, it stays at that level when you do a local build but becomes globally available when running a master build.
    2. When used in the master repo (level-1), it is super global and valid over all repos when running a build. This is because all the content sources are definied here and included when running the build process.

> 4. Attributes starting with `page-` are also available to the UI-Template when running a build. The rules above apply. This is important when defining UI content based on attributes. To acess these attributes in the UI-Template use `page.attribute.name` where `name` is without leading `page-` For details see [AsciiDoc Attributes in Antora][custom-attrib-link]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Attributes starting with `page-` are also available to the UI-Template when running a build. The rules above apply. This is important when defining UI content based on attributes. To acess these attributes in the UI-Template use `page.attribute.name` where `name` is without leading `page-` For details see [AsciiDoc Attributes in Antora][custom-attrib-link].
```
